## [Mastering mind](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EXniWH9dMf8&t=5s)


you
pooja guru dev Swami chan mian energy
made this very very beautiful statement
based on his own experience of life and
his deep study of the Upanishads as the
mind so the man you are what your mind
is when we introduce a person and say he
is a great man a good man
not so good person or whatever what
exactly are you referring to are you
referring to his height his shoes his
time his clothes his hairstyle
definitely not what are you referring to
his mind everything that you talk about
a person when you introduce that person
is about his might he's a wonderful
person he's a great person he's good
he's bad he's indifferent he's whatever
you say you're talking about the what my
you are what your mind is and not what
your body yes you are recognized you are
respected everything is because of your
mind and so before we talk about
managing the mind let's talk about the
importance of the mind in our own life
the role of the mind in our lives
it is said
that at my IVA at manoa bando at my
referral c'mon aha
your moon mine is your best friend and
your own mind is your worst
what enemy all of you must have noticed
early morning what prevents you from
getting up is it people no it's your
mind five minutes more who says that
come on it's your mind whatever you've
been able to achieve in this life who
supported you the most you may say so
and so I've become great because of X
person but believe me if your mind had
not cooperated X person could have done
nothing do you agree with me yes so it's
your mind that's your best friend and
your worst enemy isn't it true how many
of us are persecuted by our own mind you
agree what prevents us from sleeping at
night is it the mother-in-law definitely
not it's your own mind which doesn't
shut up and switch off even the all the
lights are off this doesn't switch off
you can sleep is it true or not so
therefore what is the importance of your
mind in your life your mind is your best
friend your mind is your worst male a
vimana she'arim karanam bantha moksha oh
ho one of the most famous statements all
bondage is mental and liberation is also
what from your mind there's a very
famous example given by all who finishes
teachers you must have heard it sometime
by the way how many of you are listening
to me for the first sentence put up your
hand this for my own oh wow where are
the old people
I had a big big full audience you know
this and I always tell them you know the
I just as I was coming they said oh
you'd have the same crowd and I'm so
happy that I don't have the same crowd
welcome all of you - it's very nice
always to have a new crowd and because
it's a new crowd let me give one more
introduction than what he has given I
have a very bad habit when I give my
talks I ask a lot of questions and I
expect my audience to answer the main
reason was when I was in college we had
professors and all of you I'm sure have
had such professors that they keep
talking and you sleep and they don't
bother to wake you up
is it true or not so at that point of
time I decide in my life I never thought
I'd be a speaker
I said if at all I ever give a talk to
any audience I won't allow them to sleep
and I found one of the best way to keep
them awake is to keep asking them
questions when you all answer them ah I
think most of them are awake
and you know the fact that your eyes are
open is no guarantee that you are not
asleep because some people sleep with
their eyes open so please answer it
maybe very simple questions but that's
my way of ensuring that everyone is
awake so we find that all bondage and by
bondage the meaning of the implication
of the word bondage means sorrow stress
strain all the things that you and I
want to get rid of and have so many
semanas stress management and so many
other things like that this all called
bondage in upanishadic language so all
that is in the mind mana a vimana
sharanam sharanam bantha moksha you all
bondage is of the mind this man had two
buffaloes you should take them to graze
every day and in the afternoon he would
tie them up take rest so that he would
don't wander off untie them bring them
back every day in the evening
one day when he took them it so happened
that one of the ropes around the
buffalos neck got lost must have called
fallen off somewhere so he's wondering
how to tie the Buffalo so he found a
small kutia with a Swami over there and
went and said do you have a rope
I need a rope to tie my Buffalo once I
finish doing it I'll return it back to
you can you lend me a rope he says if I
had to have all these ropes and bondages
why would I be here free of them so I
don't have a rope then he said look this
is my problem I want to tie this Buffalo
what do I do
he says do you tie the Buffalo every day
Singh of course I tie it every day then
tie it like every day but I don't have a
rope that is it you know you don't have
a rope the Buffalo doesn't know it okay
fine so
just do what you do every day anything
and you did the whole thing and to his
utter surprise the Buffalo sat down like
it did every day and he says fine this
looks like some magic of the Swami
doesn't matter I'll go and rest so he
rested for some time and he got up and
then the Buffalo they did he actually
tied he untied and the other Buffalo
says that Buffalo wouldn't get up the
bottle he went to the Swami and says I
release this Buffalo I want it back what
have you done some mantra or something
like that's not getting up he says
you've tied it now untie it all right
but manager I said donkey I I just
pretended to tie it
he says pretend to untie it just go and
do that and he didn't and to his
surprise what happened it got up and
started walking you understand we laugh
at the Buffalo we are exactly in that
state all of us exactly is all over
you know I'm stressed out where is it I
can't get out of my body I can't stop
worrying okay
the control is with you no I don't have
control you think you don't have
controlling don't have control
the fact is you think you don't have
control you don't have control that's a
fact you think you have control you have
control but this thing is very difficult
to understand you wanna agree with me
yes
five-year-olds nowadays say miracle
tension water so now grandmother's
attention I am getting some a headache I
am getting examination tension so the
grandmother is saying my dear
at your age I didn't know what was ahead
leave alone a headache and now
no wonder he is answering with a big yes
so it's all we feel I think I am bound
now I can't
I've seen many times no people tell me
Swamiji you know I can't I want to come
to your lectures but I can't I can't
leave my home so I said does the home
tie you no no no but I have to stay I
said that's the home one company no no
how can I leave the home alone all right
can you imagine the bondage that we have
come on where is that bondage in the
home come on then people tell me funny
things like you know sorry gee you know
this phone has this terrible you know it
rings at all odd hours especially when
you sit to eat lunch the phone rings so
what a funny thing you know in the olden
days we had phones with no off you know
I didn't you didn't have an off thing
like you know and now you have it you
can switch it off so I so why don't you
switch it off using the phone I Agatha
you see the contradiction what you say
you don't want the phone you switch it
off
normal important caller I got a zit then
don't complain then just sit there with
the phone are you understanding what I'm
saying it's all your we create all the
bondage we are bound and how are we born
not physically who is bound physically
come on it's all male I don't wanna
share an arm Karen um Vanden Akshay Oh
you said Nyassi a german sot Tamano here
with chiapoe bantay to pass min Vinicius
Sakhalin Minister wisdom but Esmond
Sakhalin they will be traumatic it is
been the growth in the birth envy berry
coming into play of the mind the whole
world comes to play and it's when the
destruction of the mind the world goes
into non-existence okay who wakes up in
the morning first thing in the morning
it's your mind that wakes up and you are
away is it true or not
and the world is there for you and the
mind is switched off where is the world
where is the world not with the mind the
world stuff and that's with you 24 hours
365 days from your birth to the death
the one that stays with you all the time
is your mind is it true or not no person
stays with you all the time
it's your mind that's with you all the
time your body is not with you all the
time
but your mind is there every waking
moment of your life do you agree with me
and that's what's called waking in your
mind is there it's waking when it's not
there you're not awake so thus milliner
state's economic finished up everything
is gone when the mind is gone and
everything and I tell you your day is
made with your mind and it's destroyed
by your mind I remember always or guru
ji used to say you think some days you
get up in the morning and you say good
morning God what's wrong with you mine I
mean what's this mind is a very good
mood so you get up and say what good
morning god and some days you get up and
say good god morning isn't it what
happened what happened it was the mind
mind is in the good more the world is
beautiful the mind is not in a good mood
and everything is terrible and horrible
do you agree with me
at least I know one person is awake in
our scriptures new finishes the talk of
creation two types of creations are
talked about one is called
gramma Suresh T creation that happens in
stages and steps from na very logically
it's given art mana Akasha sambuca Akash
odd vo vo agnya agnya op aha add the
purity be pratigya or should i aha
etc Oh Shania are none that from the
Lord from the supreme truth the five
elements came into existence and then
you know in science talks of Big Bang
etc so there are steps there are this is
what happened and then makes this happen
and this happen in this happen this is
one type of creation described in our
Upanishads the second type of it
creation described in our Upanishad
which all of you know and that is called
some culpa Srishti how does it happen
so karma Atta bahu see Impreza yeti SATA
pota piata SATA past at hua either gum
sarvam Astra Jetta you are a master
creator and you do it every night
beautifully you close your eyes you fall
out to sleep and use dream and in your
dream how do you create the whole dream
world do you create it in steps first
Akasha
from Akasha value from value Agni do you
create like that do you create your
great-grandfather first and then your
grandfather and then your father and
then how do you create the whole thing
is there in one second all together
everyone is there the Sun and the moon
in this charge you have the capacity and
you create it every day some of you
create it all the time even the
day time isn't it true dreams
it's called some carcass rusty it's all
from the mind the mind projects the
whole world and my what a world projects
it takes all the material that it wants
from the day Chive experiences and God
what are fantastic this man he was going
he sat in a bus in the public bus
crowded bus and then he found to his
utter delight a very beautiful girl
young boy she found a very beautiful
girl with a miniskirt with polka dots
sitting right next to him and he says
wow God has been very kind today morning
I want to now talk to this girl and get
so he started you know in and he was
feeling little this and by the time he's
got over his hesitancy and all her she
got up and went off his guy a chance
anyway then he was watching you know and
uh and uh what do you say the roadside
he found uh a procession going with in
our country we have all the wild animals
on the road you know procession of
elephant's and everything so damn damn
damn damn doom doom doom elephant's
going here they're not and he was
watching it fascinated in all and he
went home his tired he went off to sleep
and what does he see in his gene someone
knocks on the door and he opens it and
he found he finds an elephant in a
miniskirt of polka dots
this is his capacity he can create this
have you understood this he creates it
and he welcomes all so nice to meet you
this is the mind the power of the mind
which can create anything in everything
now there is something called obviously
all these are ideas that have taken from
the open issues okay don't think it's
just throne yard there's something
called a VHD mana individual mind and
there's something called the total mind
I want you to introduce you to this
total mind concept the Lord he has no
separate mind from what is called the
total mind or it's called in the
language of openness at the hidden yeha
maybe this concept I may not be able to
explain to you right now but I tell you
it's effects which all of us can notice
it there's something called a sammich
demon a total mind which plays and has a
terrific influence of every one of us I
remember when I was in school we had a
fashion of youngest girls wearing
loogies anyone remembers that because
used to wear long jeans and we thought
we'd look very smart in that believe me
I also wore now if a girl walks in with
a lungi what will happen below will
anyone think it looks cool he gathered
it I remember a time and is very very
funny I mean I always thought it was
funny but then luckily it's gone out the
girls used to have their hairstyles
change all the time but all of them they
had like a ponytail coming off from one
end like some shower you know like some
how did you notice it in the middle
there was this and everyone thought it
looked very what cool yep
now the thing is everyone thinks like
that
right now whatever you wear you think
you look very cool you look in you are
is it true not know who created this
idea
it's a Sahaj demon you are agree with me
yes you've been brainwashed into
thinking this looks what your idea of
beauty is completely a product of Sahaj
demon do you agree with me there was a
time when they had this what is it
called it was I used to call it the
Pelican you put a Capelli and whatever
is left you cut it off mushroom cut they
used to colonising yeah well that was
considered as very a hoot all them it
looks beautiful
well submerge demon and you think that's
it I are you understand all of a sudden
there is this thing of wearing these
rubber bands you've seen that right
because someone in America sings rock
bearing rubber bands is cool is it true
or not
everyone is laying rubber bands some
years back you know your
great-great-grandfather's all of them no
exception all of you of Indian origin
your great-great-great grandfather's
doesn't matter who you are whether River
a Brahmin or whatever your
great-great-great grandfather's were
your rings are you aware of that and now
your son will definitely wear your rings
why because it's very but not because
his great grandfather wore it because
see you you we are all what and we think
oh I'm very independent income you know
now when you tell this guy you know I
know no no I don't believe in anyone
believe you're completely brainwashed
you are not thinking independently thus
emerged Amun has such a control over you
and you think what everyone wants you to
think is it not what advertisement is
doing tell me it's a summer steamer
if you notice you put a piece of bread
you put bread burger and you put your
parties whether it is North India or
South India the traditional South India
or East India or west India
what will attend your old pickup bolo
iboga why this is called sammich team on
have you understood this this is so much
team at work it has such an influence on
each one else we don't even know it we
don't even realize it it's guiding
everything that we do
this is pulse immersed in one and we say
I don't believe in God or Rama you don't
know what you are doing
you're acting by his will you don't even
know you're acting by his real this of
course there's the rush teaming and I
tell you issuance which T is there the
word is created by God but there's also
something called a Jeeva
Srishti your own individual creation
which you live in you don't like most of
the time in issuance which T most of the
time you live in Jeeva Srishti what is
this what is it
it's a watch no it is my watch what is
it now this concept of mine where is it
where is it for you is just a watch for
us what for me it's my now where is this
mine is it in the watch
oh no is it in this creation not at all
it's here but for me when I look at it I
never look at it as a watch I always
look at it look at it as my what is it
true or not
don't you all look at your own children
also not just as someone but as my child
and business - it is not in that object
at all nowhere in that object is this -
nowhere in the object is the beauty this
is all in your mind do you all agree
with me there was this one man running
fast dashed against another young man
going and both of them crashed
to each other this is an adequate salary
can Technogel d so he said you know it's
no I'm in a hurry why I'm getting
divorced so I'm going to get to know
this aha you under this so this fellow
saying you should have seen where are
you going to say I'm gonna get married
and do their utter surprise they found
that it was the same girl that one was
good agent
now this good guy thinks she's
everything in the world and the other
one thinks is what now where is all that
it's in the girl bono it's in the god
where is it you know the laila majnu
story all of you are very familiar with
who is the girl and who was the boy I
always get mistaken for that who was
Lena Lena is the girl obviously because
much new word also sounds you know like
a girl's name anyway so
Lena wasn't very pretty so much know was
told how come she's not that pretty
what's the big deal he's saying if you
want to see beauty in Lena you should
see through the eyes of Muslim all of
you know beauty lies in the eyes of the
so where is this concept that you have
it's all all of us are living in Jeeva
Srishti do you all agree with me he's
not living in God's own creation we are
living in our own one individual
creation and then we go about it and we
said this is the way it is this is the
way and I argue with you that it is like
that and you argue with me saying it is
like that don't we all do that and it's
my creation I've made it like that and I
think that's the way it is and you think
that's the way it is and we don't agree
on this so this is called as all the
mind then I'm going to make one
statement which will seem a rather this
mono maíam thought Poonam semester the
whole creation is only in your mind of
that is too much
okay where is this much in my hand where
is my hand on my body and where is this
body on the stage and where is the stage
it's in IIM and where is IIM it is numb
the barbarism the ballots in Gujarat
Wells Gujarat it's an Asia
where is Asia it is on this earthen
where is this earth so far it's so easy
so I'm just going fast
where is this earth it is in space and
there is space there is space space is
everywhere but where where you
experience it in your deep sleep State
do you experience space no you don't you
don't experience anything in your deep
sleep stage there is no space it is only
when your mind wakes up that is the
space concept of time and place is in
your mind as thoughts is it true or not
apart from thought you cannot prove the
existence of time or space or anything
in the world it's a thought in your mind
and there are thoughts
is the thought in the body it is the
mind in the body or is the body in the
mind
tell me where is this watch prove the
existence of this watch apart from a
thought in your mind no one in the world
can prove it
you may say I'm in or be dead the watch
will be there how do you know that how
do you know that well I mean I'll go but
if I go away somewhere and then I come
back again and I'll ask you and you will
have to experience this thought how will
you know that you experienced that
thought it will again be a thought in
your mind is it true or not
come on and therefore at the end of the
day what do you understand that the
whole world is in your mind
it's a terrific conclusion are you
understanding I'm saying this because we
must understand the place of the mind in
our and we have never realized you know
the importance we never give it
importance we all came prepared for the
talk and what do you prepare when you
came for the stop you prepare your body
not your mind is it true or not and
what's going to listen to the talk is it
the body of the mind and most of our
life you are gonna be preparing our
bodies and never the mind it is the mind
that faces life and not your body you
all agree with me I who ask anyone who's
going to get married
Swamiji bought the yard each other a new
generation taken by the Swamiji bole
kaura do for a parish Pilate suka
revenge
okay Swamiji very sorry oh never cut me
sorry Cory decreases nanana Swamiji it
sati but in any way a joke I tivo'd in
alleyway the road the roads
okay one viewer you prepare and what do
you prepare saris and God alone knows or
whatever what all things is and who is
going to stay together the bodies would
meet but it is the minds that mean is it
true or not
if the miles are together everything is
fine the minds are not together just
doesn't and mind is never prepared the
mind is never and therefore when they
meet together they says God I never you
knew he was like that one whole your
what happened he was so busy preparing
your house and surroundings in the body
and everything but the mind that was
meant to live with that person are you
getting my point
everywhere in life everything in life
this is what exactly we are doing you're
not training the mind not you know
preparing the mind to face life and that
is what faces and that is what is facing
the world moment to moment now having
understood this let's go to the next
thing point was the power of the mind
the mind has a terrific power over your
body in fact all those who are doctors
would agree that so much of all diseases
many part of it is psychosomatic do you
all agree with me how much of it some
diseases are called psychosomatic
diseases it's all the mind plane I
always remember the story of you know
the Vice Chancellor of the Gujarat
University you had a plane crash quite a
few years back almost 15-20 years back
yes and at that time I remember the
story was he himself told related it to
me and I was very impressed with that
when the plane crashed and they landed
crash-landed they were in the flight and
they knew this plane is gonna burst and
they didn't know how to come out so they
broke the window there was one small
little guy
so this vice-chancellor he caught hold
of this guy and he threw him out of the
window and he himself jumped out when he
jumped out he realized there was this
terrific pain in this
he said I don't have to think about it
because if you don't go away from the
plane and it bursts into flames will get
burnt so he carried this young boy
because he's got young boy was
completely stunned he couldn't do
anything he carried this young boy and
he ran as far away from the plane as
possible and there any went he just
collapsed
he knew the pain was so much he knew
that he feel did not you know he was
becoming unconscious and he says if it
becomes unconscious everyone goes to the
plane said they don't even know there
are two survivors over here and they
desperately needed medical help the
child needed
he himself needed medical help so he
kept away and the only way he knew how
to keep awake was shouting shouting on
the top of his voice biting his lip so
that he could keep awake and somehow he
caught the attention of someone and then
they came to him and then the doctors
they took him to the hospital they found
both of his legs were completely
multiple fractured with multiple
fracture he carried a young boy and
grant this is called mind over body have
you understood that we can't even dream
of it multiple fracture you think you
can run carrying something and somehow
this is called body I mean the mind over
there are many many such incidents you
all know there is this in New York
there's a island called Brooklyn
recently I read you know a beautiful
story came to me about how the Brooklyn
Bridge was built a father and son team
were took up this ambitious project
everyone thought they were absolutely
crazy and will never work out anyway the
work started and there was this terrible
storm and a lot of accidents happen
during the storm the father died the son
was completely paralyzed the only thing
that his book his mind was completely
safe the body was paralyzed his fingers
tips moved a little bit and that's it
fingertips moved a little bit now you're
as he's frustrated he's locked up in a
body that doesn't function at all the
father is dead the project is gone he
says I want to finish my father's wish
and I want to see that the bridge is
done what does he do his wife
on her hand he developed a language by
tapping her giving her instructions
technical instruction the only person
who understood what he was saying was
his wife so through his wife tapping her
finger his fingers on her hand he
conveyed how the entire bridge was going
to be built and ten years this happened
and the bridge was built can you imagine
what is this you and I would have given
up long back I said true or not gaveta
kaya a smooch agent image even or sushi
a joker granox hooker you ever camp and
you have you understood this this is the
mind and mind over mind all of you know
hypnosis you know so many autosuggestion
your own mind can do conquer all the
fears of your mind and you can do
anything and everything is it true or
not the power of the mind the scope of
the mind
they say Stephen Hawkins all of you must
have heard of him he's a very famous
physicist he uses four percent of his
total brain power how much do you think
you and I must be using think of it a
person like him so we find that our
brain power of mind power is just
unbelievable we have not even explored
the openly share the Rishi's were the
ones who had explored a lot of their
mind power and therefore for them cities
which you and I talk right now as
miracles were so common walking over
water flying levitation all these things
anima Garima Mahima all these cities are
nothing but the power of the mind have
you understood and they are not stories
they were facts at one time all that was
achieved right now what is being
achieved right now by young Shakti was
at that time achieved through mantra
Shakti is it true or not
and what is mantra Shakti but the power
of the mind having understood the power
of the mind let's go to the next
question of what is the mind what is the
money
and a maíam he saw me ah man aha
what is the content what is it made up
of mine it's made up of subtle it's a
subtle material that is made about not
the grass material that you can see it's
made of subtle material therefore you
can't see it with your eyes you can't
hear it with your ears you can't smell
it with your nose you can't touch it
with your skin you can't taste it with
your tongue the mind is made of subtle
material and therefore you can't
experience it for you with your five
cross sense organs is that understood
but it is made of of material it is
still matter and it is made up of subtle
matter and says this subtle matter in
this material is provided by the food
that you eat and therefore in every
Indian language you will definitely have
a similar proverb je vous je vous on the
table or car isn't there a Jetta make au
choix that becomes your that's what the
opener shirt says under my mhmm an AHA
saamiya so the material of the my and
therefore you know many times people
says Swamiji asked external voltage
nathie at fire in there so yeah that
does it actually you take a typical
South Indian in the olden days which
massage Sonam by our this by hard that
by hat is it true or not
now let the Sun cinema how I resist by
her everything Technica that an away the
only thing they remember by heart other
TV ads right yes tables you ask them to
do they can't do it now it is just gone
the memory is gone by look at the type
of food that they are eating are you
understanding that yes or no fast food
short-term memories you understand you
asked H&I; I'm telling you I'm doing my
example of my own grade my my
grandfather he had done BA in this olden
days you know the BA that and he used to
tell me that in the fifth standard we
learn this poetry and then in the
seventh standard this is this was talk
in the east till his BA every here what
was talk he remembered at the age of 85
you ask any
over your seven standard student what he
was taught in the six standard and you
will not get anything is it true or not
I've told so many schools I said I
challenge you after the vacation give
the same exam paper that you gave before
the vacation don't even change the
question and you give the same paper and
you will see the first ranker will also
fail is it true or not this is it where
is the way nothing gone what is the for
date
what is the on the my on the mind
quality of the mind one of the thing
that affects the mind is the food that
you eat visits the content that's what
is made of the material what is the mind
mine is a flow of thoughts it's a
continuous flow of thoughts of Ruth
Ibrahim Prabha and was the meaning of
the word receive earth an authority that
which keeps changing all the time the
fastest thing in the world they say is
the speed of light 3 into 10 raise to 6
what plummet is per second that's what
they say the fastest thing in the world
and it takes 11 minutes for the lights
from the sunlight to come to thee earth
and how much time does it take your mind
to go to the Sun and come back again
isn't it much faster the fastest thing
you know
by the time I'm telling you this - such
a anything what happens the many
channels know many people say Swamiji
you know the mind gets distracted even
then you'll listen to me I'm sure so
many times your mind must have gone out
and God knows where and come back again
some people's has gone out it's not come
back at all it's God alone knows where
it is
some people never brought their mind at
all in the first place it's only the
body that came over here
God Rama's valtor's why does this happen
when you are listening to a speaker your
thoughts are going anywhere but even
though the talk may be very absorbing
still the mind wanders because the speed
of my speech can never match the speed
of your have you understood that so I am
talking and I'm talking pretty fast and
yet your mind can grasp not just what
I'm talking you're also observing how
what my gestures are you're observing so
many other things and you're also
observing how what your friend or your
enemy is thinking or what I'm speaking
is it true or not
your neighbor or somewhere that so many
things together why because this is your
capacity it's a continuous flow of
thoughts and that's why you know when
people say and the what type of thoughts
Oh innumerable objects and innumerable
different type of thoughts all the time
flowing in your mind and that is why
when people say no you know when they
fall in love this make the statement I
am thinking of you twenty-four hours
remember this the biggest lie in the
world no one can do that
so all lies do you know if one thought
continuously remains in your mind for
just 30 seconds you will go into Samadhi
are you aware of that how much 30
seconds and you said 24 as I think of
you
nonsense you think of everything other
than the person once in a while you
think of that person and then again go
somewhere else and again go somewhere
else this is the mind continuous flow
it's like a what is the state of that
mind right now my god
you know Bhagwan has made all of us with
three manufacturing defects
it says part of the product nothing you
could do about it
and what are these three and I'm not
making my own making them up like that
it's the polishes that say the three are
called mullah Vic shaper and Agni on a
Verona mullah the dirt of the mind
karma Crowe the Lobo Muhammad Ahmad
Surya etcetera is it true or not
and I say always say thank God Bhagwan
made it such that we can't see each
other's mind visited to boom below I
tell you if you could see each other's
mind no two people will sit next to each
other agree husband and wife relation
impossible barsik hanging I love you I
love you under second gate come ma ji
ghee and God alone knows how many
thoughts must be going which may be we
are bitch re thoughts etc but outside it
is all is it true or not
I tell you thank God we can't see but we
know now whether anyone else knows or
not we know China channel our mind is
one is all comic rose and oppa so much
agree sometimes our thoughts are so
ridiculous so silly sometimes so what do
you call it aggressive sometimes violent
mean cheap sometimes very supreme
sublime great beautiful this is the mind
and most of us you know management gurus
nowadays they say that one part of the
mind
everyone knows you also know we also
know supposing someone is very angry
type of a person
the neighbors also know that this guy is
they can hear you him shout and all that
everyone knows there's one part of the
mind that others know but you don't know
that is one part of the mind please
become aware of that others understand
you perfectly in certain things and you
can't see yourself there are some people
who are very proud and you ask them
anything
oh honey the way you walk you can make
out this person is very but he will say
nice blissfully unaware of their mine
there is one part of the mind that you
know and others do not know and
therefore everyone whoever is sitting
over here with no exception we all feel
no one really understands me is it true
or not
no one really understands your best
friend your husband who's been married
to you twenty-five years or your wife no
one really why because no one really of
course they don't understand and why
should they there was a contract written
or what that everyone in the world
should understand you this funny notion
that we all have everyone must
understand me why they have better
things to do you agree I mean this is
very funny notion that we all have
everyone must understand me understand
you provide you think and you yourself
change every moment you don't understand
yourself every moment and everyone else
must understand you why have you got
this if you get out of all these funny
notions now you live happily
they don't understand you fine I also
don't understand myself they don't
understand me fine so what are you with
me so therefore we find that the mind
first thing we need to do is understand
our own mind try to get to know as much
of it there's some part of it we don't
know about at all so therefore try and
understand I always say mind is like
mathematics you know the mind the human
mind is like know like emotions etc
sometimes people say no no that they are
they cannot be yes I always call it the
mathematics of emotions or the logic of
emotions you say no they are illogical
to not know they are our scriptures give
beautiful examples of the logical I'm
going to analyze one or two for your
understanding and how important this for
us to know our mind understand our mind
then we know how to cope with it
becomes a little easier to master this
money I'm going to take one particular
first very common one
all of us have anger right anyone free
from anger I can make them angry right
now if I want to follow understand how
anger happens just a simple thing
kammath grows ovj a thing whenever there
is a desire that you want to fulfill any
obstacle that comes in the way of
fulfilling desire what you feel towards
the obstacle is called anger is it true
simple logic and what are we doing we
want to get rid of anger but we want to
increase our desires you think it's
going to work but the more intense the
desire the greater is the anger towards
the obstacle in fulfilling your desire
isn't it pure mathematics but the less
intense that is I are the lesser is the
anger that you feel I want to go for a
movie and mummy says no I have to go for
a movie and mummy says no thank it is
more yeah I'd like to go for a movie she
said no it's okay you have you got this
it's a simple logic what are we doing we
are increasing the number of our desires
all the time and still and you know the
more the number of desires the lesser
are the chances off but what fulfilling
because so many people want the same
thing
demand and supply all sorts of things
it's not possible sometimes you have
conflicting desires don't you on but TV
be the X nahan so be general so many
conflicting desires all the time and
then you think no I'm going to get out
of anger and frustration by by
increasing your Desai's we don't do
anything for desires and we want to
control
how's it going to happen kammath grow
the business if you understand this
simple reasons for have the problems
that we have it'd be so easy there's
another thing and I'm going to take this
emotion for the very fact that rarely if
at all anyone ever admits to this
particular emotion and that is called
it's a negative emotion I'll take
positive also afterwards and that is
called jealousy jealousy is something no
one will ever admit to having envy you
may admit jealousy never
what is the difference and I'll tell you
what is it jealousy I'm analyzing it to
make you understand how you must analyze
your mind what is jealousy when I have a
value for something someone else has a
greater amount of it and a little more
than me then the feeling that I have
towards that object or a person is
called jealousy if I don't have a value
for it and if someone else has as much
as it of it I will not feel jealous you
may have beautiful jewelry I will never
feel jealous of you by because I don't
have a benefit if I had value for it and
then you displayed all your jewelry I
said car the only thing I miss about
being a sannyasi is the jewelry she
won't listen but if I don't have value
for it you can have as much of it as you
want it's not going to affect me have
you understood this and you will
definitely not be jealous of my Oran
saris right
because you have no value for a cow can
you get jealous on it you take or be
maybe death you jo-jo yet you must have
a value for a thing and then someone
else must have a little more of it the
emphasis were on the word little a
beggar is never never never jealous of a
multimillionaire
never it's not possible the beggar can
be envious of multimillionaires insecure
but a beggar will be jealous of another
beggar down the road
who gets 20 rupees more than him is it
true or not this is it that's what I
mean by jealousy it's such a petty
emotion that we won't admit to it
because it's so petty
and jealousy can be of your near and
dear ones also is it true or not
there can be jealousy between a husband
and wife you can be jealous of your
children also you can be jealous offer
and that's why you can be jealous of
your best friend it's possible have you
understood and these are the reasons why
you'll never admit to the fact of having
it if you don't even admit that you have
it how are you going to get out of it
if I see my face in the mirror and I see
a spot and I don't even want to accept
that I have a black spot on my face how
am I going to get rid of it are you
getting my point this is what happens
channa CP won't admit even after me
telling you all how do you know that you
have jealous you are jealous of another
person how do you know a very simple
test you want to know it
it might make you an uncomfortable
whenever anyone talks very nice things
about that person you don't like it
simple anyone comes good things nice
thing you know you don't know this
person is so nice I saw this it all the
minute that person talks you feel
terrible
you were a little more aggressive you
will try to bring down the opinion of
that person in the eyes of another
person who admires is it true or not you
will do that so this is what jealousy
what is the difference between jealousy
and competition I am Telling You all
this is because to understand analyze
you don't mind you understand this is
called competition this called jealousy
two people a and B are racing one is
going ahead the other is a little slow
and the person who is going ahead a was
faster he looks at B and he realizes
that that B has a chance of coming up to
a so a has a feeling of competition
because he's still in the race B also
feels that if I run fast enough I'll be
able to come so he also feels a sense of
competition a shoots right ahead
B realizes I can't but and then the
feeling that could come is called
what in a competition you think that you
can come up to the level of the other
person you can still rise up to whatever
the other person's expectations or
values or whatever are but when jealousy
is there there's a downward pull you
can't go up to that person so you
pull that person down so that the other
person you think then you are both on
equal level or superior to that person
is it true or not have you thought of it
in jealous you will talk bad of that
person bring the opinion of others in
the eyes of that you don't know that's
right so if you are jealous of me which
I know you none of you are but yeah
women you don't know what she is
I know television sorry miracle super
tiny table but okay iPad
eirick kabul nabi jonathan avi soon
teeny Princess Ozma no I know
then you the other persons
you know value for that person is shaken
up you feel very happy inside if you
feel happy like that understand what
that this have you got my point why I
analyze this is because many times many
of our mind weaknesses we don't even
know if we don't know we don't
understand we don't even analyze how are
we going to get rid of it how are we
going to master the mind which we don't
even understand what's happening inside
so therefore first thing you need to do
is understand and know our mind what is
the mind we must know the mind is
divided in our scriptures as mana bootie
cheetah and ahankara mana sankalpa be
culpa shall I do HLN or to this or
emotions karmic Rosa Lobo moja etcetera
motions this is all love faith all these
then you have good the imagination
observation organizing capacity
creativity sensitivity all these are
intellectual capacity the capacity drove
discriminate determination decide all
these are intellectual capacities then
cheat the samara not mccarthy memory to
be able to recall and remember bring
back all the information as
when required and a hunka hunka doesn't
mean pride a hunk are over your means
the notion of AI all of us commonly have
a hunk ara some of us have pride also
what is a hunk ara the notion of I
meaning I am a woman I am a Swami I feel
I am a Swami you feel I'm a boy or I'm a
man I'm a girl I'm a woman I'm mrs.
so-and-so this feeling of I I remember I
think I know I understand this I in each
thought is called a hunk ara have you
understood the what is the song cutter
hunger is not pride pride is what if I
say I am a Swami
it is not per on Cara if I say I'm the
best Swami in the world that's called
pride have you understood that time to
say I am a Swami is not uh is Omkara but
to say and the best Swami in the world
is called a vimana or pride you
understood the difference between a
hankerin right ego ego if you have
understood ego as pride then it is this
but normally in the vedantic language in
the language of the Upanishads we call
ego as the I notion in you Matt Beaudry
who absolutely ho aku Yard
are I had this notion of men men men in
every thought you have ie this notion is
called a hunk ara or ego and not pride
pride as a vimana or a garma these are
the words used technically they're
separated because otherwise this mistake
happens so we're talking about a hunk
era as the I notion behind every thought
now Malaga theta and a hunk ARA are all
only functional differences but they are
all basically thoughts you understand
they're basically thoughts now as I said
what is the state of our mind at this
time then we'll talk of mastering it
okay
if you are driving a car and the you
know the instructor say stop you know
you're learning to drive instructors a
stop and if you can't stop turn you can
turn you can reverse you reverse take a
u-turn you do it you turn then you are
qualified you get a license and you can
go onto the roads and do what you do
that's what they do in the I was told
that the test that they take is you have
to go from your to your straight and
nothing else the test that they take
over here in am the but isn't it they
just did nothing else
and what happens such people come on the
road and you know what happens in on the
bottom now if you have understood that
you need all these type of skills to be
able to master your vehicle I am going
to ask you let's do a small test stop
thinking
I'm sure no one managed that is it - or
not
recollect what you ate on 27th of August
last year for lunch so much it was my
birthday
our than then you don't think about a
monkey
are you getting my band are we the
masters of our mind yes
in fact sometimes it happens what we
don't want to think we keep thinking all
the time is it 200 and what we want to
think let's talk in the language of
computers everyday morning if you have a
PC what do you do the first thing is you
upgrade your anti-virus program isn't it
that's the first thing you do or that's
what they say you should do and you have
to do it daily they say why because new
viruses are being discovered each day
and if your virus if your computer gets
infected what happens so many different
type of things can happen there are some
viruses which delete certain files from
your computer is it true or not
there are some viruses which they
corrupt the files and that by corrupt
the files what you mean they put some
word or some silly some sentence or
numbers or something in between
the information that is already stored
that's one of the virus they do that so
after every little one this there'll be
a number seven few words and then some
figures or something or some odd word or
something you can't read anything then
you can
it's called corrupted file then
sometimes it happens when it's a very
very terrible virus that the whole
computer what completely crashes I'll
tell you all these viruses are right now
in our mind because we never have an
anti-virus program in this is the heart
the brain is the hard Hardware of your
computer and the software antivirus the
mind which needs to get this sort of a
you know protection we have never done
anything I'll prove to you
how many of us buddy suffer from the
buddy virus after every little bit I
think it will happen I hope it doesn't
happen what if it happens I'm sure it
will happen but now you who got thoughts
how yeah who got the caliber I hope it
doesn't happen but is it true or not
every few thoughts these very thoughts
come up in between this is called what
virus you can't stop it you can't do
anything more and just comes anyhow
Anytime Anywhere and how often it
happens what you want to remember oh oh
it's what happened file got deleted is
it true or not come on how often it has
happened to you how many viruses are
right now in our system we don't even
know we've done nothing - that is why we
find right now the mind is the first
ever bias said no the manufacturing
defect is Mullah all that so this
viruses are there the second is called
big shape of except amines distractions
of the mind I already told you how
distracted the mind is how distracting
the - you mind doesn't just get focused
on anything that you want to do
concentration is one common problem for
all of us do all agree yes as pervasive
a problem as many times kids coming on
Swamiji how to concentrate the mind is a
very common question as in most question
on secessions and I ask those kids
always do you have any problem in
concentrating on the TV does anyone have
some frog no why your mind automatically
concentrates on that what you love if
you love your studies you will not have
any problem in cuz you don't write your
studies and naturally your mind what
what something so therefore Vick shaper
or distraction is the second
manufacturing defect in all of us
and the third is called agony on a
Verona we really don't know who we are
in our own true nature we think we are
the body we think we are the mind but we
don't know our own true nature I'll talk
a little bit about it a little later so
this called agony on Oberon and that is
because of that the Vedas the scriptures
the main scriptures of the Hindus the
Vedas and these Vedas believe me are not
written and composed by individuals the
Vedas are the realized truth of the
Rishi's on their seat of meditation I
always give the example of Newton
discovering the law of gravity sitting
under the apple tree with an apple
falling on his head what happened to him
he got a sakshatkar of the law of
gravity have you understood now in the
same way when they were sitting in their
seat of meditation the Rishi's realized
the truth of the world different aspects
of the world and those stools they gave
it to their own shishas who in turn
realize them give it to - ears and this
knowledge was all-pervading in our
country and at one time Veda Vyasa
realized it's getting this you know
dispersion many versions are coming off
with so it's time to compile it into
books and then it got compiled into
books which are called the Vedas so the
Vedas are not written by individuals
they are what they are D but the
realizations of truths of Rishi's in
their seat of meditation and the
compiler and the editor of the Vedas was
Veda Vyasa and it's now available as
four volumes the Rig Veda Jude May the
sama bathe in the atharvaveda and these
volumes are divided into three different
sections called conda's and these three
are because of our three manufacturing
defects okay how scientific it is I want
to tell you the first Condor is called
the karma kanda by following the karma
kind of the way
what happens the mullah of the mind gets
destroyed by following the open account
of the second kind of the Vedas the
shaper the distractions of the mind get
destroyed and by following the Glee
onaconda or the Upanishads of the Vedas
the jnana or the ignorant of your nature
of your true self gets destroyed have
you understood
so what is the knowledge of the
Upanishad the Upanishads gives us
knowledge of Who I am
and when we this knowledge become really
what you call it fruitful and meaningful
to us when our mind is already prepared
by getting rid of the mullah and the big
shaper there is a bucket of water in the
sunlight and you are not getting a
perfect reflection in the bucket why
there can be two reasons there's no
clouds in the sky the sky is very clear
and yet there's no clear reflection
because either the water is muddy or the
water is what shit if the water becomes
clean and steady you get a perfect
reflection in the bucket similarly in
the bucket of the body is the water of
the mind and right now what is the state
of that mullah and Vic shaper have you
understood so when the mullah and Vic
shaper are destroyed you don't have to
bring the reflection into the water it
is already there you can experience it
similarly in our mind which is purer and
steadily the knowledge of Who I am
is reflected clear clearly because this
so the opening shot tell us how to go
get rid of all the mullah in the big
shaper and make our mind to go beyond
the mind now this is the last point that
I would like to make what is the limit
of the mind what is the ultimate in the
culmination of this great beautiful
instrument that the good Lord has given
to each one of us what is its
culmination what is its highest
achievement you may say technology has
taken us so far and all that fantasy
there is no question when you look at
the computers and we look at all the
technological advances you just have to
say hats off to that mind of man which
has made it all possible do you agree
with me yes it's true but yet what's the
culmination was the ultimate there where
the mind can reach and that is a
beautiful I will just give it to you
through an example makes it easy for me
to explain there's one sport which is
very it looks very nice also it's one of
my favorite and that is pole vaulting
have you seen it they do the pole
vaulting sport in the Olympics and all
you find so you have the person taking a
pole he runs with a pole at the right
and fixes the pole into the ground takes
the support off the pole and then goes
over another pole and reaches the other
side okay to go over the pole he needs a
pole okay but his ultimate aim is to go
beyond the pole have you understood and
for going beyond the pole he needs a
special type of pole and what type of a
pole is that it has to be sharp it has
to be strong it has to be flexible
isn't it true if it is not strong
there's a disaster if it is not single
pointed and sharp there's a problem if
it doesn't bend them you can't go over
the other but if you have that and the
right timing isn't it and when you do
that you can go it looks very beautiful
have you seen them swing so gracefully
on to the other side similarly what is
the culmination of the mind when can you
see your mind has reached its pinnacle
of achievement then you and I understand
the limit that the mind can go and we
can go beyond the mind have you
understood that is it you go you take
your mind to its ultimate limit and you
understand this is the limit of the mind
the mind can go so far and not further
and that is why a great man like
Einstein said I only wish I could know
the mind of our God all else is mere
details
he had to say that because he understood
the limit of mine he said was like there
where science ends philosophy he knows
that you can go only this far and no
further with your mind all your
achievements your technical achievements
your scientific achievements all your
mind powers can take you only and not
beyond now with your permission or with
your concurrence or this can be shy to
go beyond the mind no demand no supply
at least let's go intellectual as an
intellectual exercise first of all to be
able to recognize there's something
beyond the mind that itself is a big
thing as I said to recognize the dirt on
your face is the first step to be able
to remove the dirt similarly to
recognize that there is something beyond
the mind is the first step to going
beyond the mind do you all see the mic
yes rise are open your eyes to see the
mic the seer is different from the scene
the seer can see the scene but the scene
cannot see this here the no knows the
known but the known cannot know the no
one the knower is different from the
known thank God because if the knower
becomes the known you have problem if
you see a donkey you know the donkey
what you become aha
thank God you don't the knower always
remains different from the known so the
knower is different from the known the
no one knows the known but the known
does not know the knower the eyes can
see the mic how do you know that the
eyes see the mic my mind knows that the
eyes see the mic is it true or not if
the mind was somewhere else the eyes
could be open but you don't see the mic
and that's how accidents happen when the
accident happens don't they say whole
pitch alone okay our bunker key to
Latakia no the eyes are open but the
mind is somewhere else and therefore you
have so the mind is there which knows
what the eyes see is it true or not so
the mind is the knower or the seer of
the eyes that's why you say I can't see
well who knows that you can't see well
but the eyes the mind knows that the
eyes don't see well is that okay so the
mind is the knower and the eyes other
known the knower is different from the
known the knower knows the known but the
known cannot know the know where the
mind knows what the eyes see but the
eyes cannot know what the mind thing
are you with me now who was what's
happening in your mind I asked you a
question do you understand what I am
speaking some of you will say yes some
of you will say no doesn't matter at all
you don't understand of course I don't
understand I don't know what you're
talking fine you know you don't
understand of course I know I don't
understand right
you know you don't understand yes I know
I don't understand who is the I that
knows you don't understand I I know I
don't understand understanding or not
understanding is happening where in your
mind is it true or not
yes that's where it happens the mind
understands or it doesn't understand so
the mind I know my mind I know that I
understand the knower is different from
the known then nor nosfy known but the
known cannot put the know where so there
is an eye beyond the mind because of
which the mind knows what it knows have
you understood that's why this is the
one we're talking about where the
Rishi's go the great sages have gone
they have understood the limit to which
the mind can go and have gone beyond
that mind to know that I that infinite
truth all the limitations are there but
when you go beyond that you come to a
realm with no limitations as I said
time-space and objects cannot have
separate existence apart from thoughts
in your mind and when you go beyond
thoughts you have gone beyond time space
and objects have you understood that and
in that realm that realm of reality
which is called Atma which is called
Paramatma which is called God which is
called God realization sakshatkar moksha
near man these are only different
synonyms of the same thing so this is
the capacity of the mind and believe me
you all can do it we always remain in
our own we need to master the mind to go
what what
beyond the money and when you reach that
stage you are the mother why should we
do all this thing because that is a
state of bliss and all peace now I'm
asking you the last question do you all
want to be happy yes or nothing yes now
what type of happened is do you want you
want normal happiness and I can't
translate the world the value all know
you are dumb all happiness I won't shun
the happiness for all those who said
Shanta they must have become quite old
I'm sure how the youngsters would have
said the Magi younger it's a very
strange thing all of us want excitement
all of us want happiness all of us want
peace also it's a very strange thing and
I'm going to tell you something please
think about it maybe you would accept it
now I just think about it our Upanishads
say that sanctum Shivam ad vitam chat or
thumb money on this earth Malik Nina
Ultima or the cells is ash anthem I'm
asking this because majority of the
world has a problem no peace of mind
agitation stress strain tension etc
isn't it true we all want peace of mind
you want happiness yes none making you
realize this very important thing when
will there be peace in this hall
ah when he stopped talk when he started
talking the piece was broken is it true
or not their boss peace peace cannot be
created I want all of you to know this
peace cannot be created peace is a
natural state peace is not created it is
only agitation and noise that is created
I hope this is very clear
it's afraid I don't know whether you get
the impact of what I'm trying to say
peace is not created peace is your
natural state you are peace you create
agitation and what you create you can
stop have you got the point yes or no so
I am giving you a key to mind management
how you bury her and whose hand is it in
you know whose hand you created the
agitation you created this dress you
created the noise you created all these
garb are you stop creating it full stop
it's already peaceful have you caught it
many jokes because the Swamiji how
should I stop getting angry and I tell
you there's only one of real answers
stop getting angle see it's a question
how can I stop talking don't talk have
you got my point there is no other
answer actually speaking there is no
answer but we say no no no you tell me
that is not an answer no then I'll say
get up at 3 in the morning who hold your
nose get up and to up and down and then
you will feel peace Swamiji you give
practical advice I
the actual solution is the minute the
agitation stop there is peace you
started the agitation you just stopped
creating it anymore you say I'm not
going to participate in creating area
agitation in my own mind I refuse to
back all this nonsense that's going on
in my mind you stop it it stops you stop
giving momentum to your thoughts that
stops the thought stop but you keep
giving momentum you keep giving all
masala and if you l2 it and uses abandon
you okay Bungie knew that Casa Vega have
you got the point this is a very very
important thing and some key to
mastering it the Upanishads say it's so
simply chanting Shyama three thumb to
thumb onion these are my you are that
bliss you are happiness you are creating
unhappiness you're creating agitation
you are creating stress and then you go
around and you want a mantra and you
want a Tantra and a guru and everyone do
what
help you what when the key is where okay
so with that I end my session on
mastering the mind as given in the
Upanishads believe me this is an endless
topic it's a very very huge this I only
touched on this and still none of you
can say you don't have the key okay
nothing I have given you the key and I
hope you get the same bliss that the
Rishi's have promised that you will get
when you master your mind and go beyond
the mind
thank you and hurry understand"