* It is a commonplace observation that work expands so as to fill the time available for its completion.
* Example: Elderly women who has not work, trying to write a letter to her niece takes whole day.
* Work behaves like a gas: It fills all the available space (time) and the smaller the space the more pressure you get.
* Bureaucratic burden increases over time
* When you have a deadline it’s like a storm ahead of you or having a truck around the corner. It’s menacing and it’s approaching, so you focus heavily on the task – Eldar Shafir
* “When people sit down to do a task, they’ll put in a lot of effort initially. At some point there’s going to be diminishing returns on extra effort. To optimise productivity, you need to maximise benefits and minimise costs and find that inflection point, which is where you should start to wrap up.”

## Bike-shed

* A reactor is so vastly expensive and complicated that an average person cannot understand it, so one assumes that those who work on it understand it. On the other hand, everyone can visualize a cheap, simple bicycle shed, so planning one can result in endless discussions because everyone involved wants to add a touch and show personal contribution.
* This is a metaphor indicating that it is not necessary to argue about every little feature based simply on the knowledge to do so. Some people have commented that the amount of noise generated by a change is inversely proportional to the complexity of the change.

* "the perfect advertisement would attract only one reply". Examples are given of job ads that hope to prove sufficiently off putting to the wrong candidates.

## The law of multiplication of subordinates

* The tendency of managers to hire two or more subordinates to report to them so that neither is in direct competition with the manager themself; 
* The fact that bureaucrats create work for other bureaucrats.
* Among goverments, Cabinet size was negatively correlated with government effectiveness; political stability.



## 

* [Law of triviality](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Law_of_triviality)
* [A British historian famously wrote that work expands to fill available time – but what was he actually saying about inefficiency?](https://www.bbc.com/worklife/article/20191107-the-law-that-explains-why-you-cant-get-anything-done)
* [Further steps beyond Parkinson's Law: A replication and extension of the excess time effect](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/0022103167900297)